Proposal Website
Please create a proposal webpage with the following sections.
Title, Summary and Team Members
1.) Title: Pathtracing extension to support iridescent – wavelength dependent path tracing 
2.) Project Summary (2-3 Sentences): This project aims to extend a standard RGB path tracer to support wavelength-dependent rendering, enabling the accurate simulation of iridescent phenomena like thin-film interference seen in soap bubbles and CDs. By modeling light as a spectrum of wavelengths rather than three simple color channels, we will implement physically-based reflectance models to capture the complex constructive and destructive interference that creates shifting "rainbow" color effects based on the viewing angle. Using our existing path tracing framework from Homework 3 as a foundation, we will build a modified pipeline that integrates spectral representation and specialized BRDFs to render iridescent surfaces in diverse lighting environments.
3.) Team Members: Crystal LaMar, Kellen Galban, Isaac Jones, Sofia Valadez
Problem Description:
What is the problem we are trying to solve?
Standard path tracers treat light as three channels (RGB) which aren't able to capture iridescence. We are solving how to render this accurately and quickly.
Why is it important?
Iridescence appears everywhere in nature and manufactured objects (bubbles, butterfly wings, CD’s, etc) and so it is important to be able to render when showcasing images that have iridescent properties.
What is the context for the idea?
Iridescence is a physical phenomenon that occurs when micro structures on a particular surface are spaced apart at just the right distance that it results in the reflection of certain visible wavelengths of light, and destructive interference of other wavelengths. This often results in a “rainbow” or “shiny” bright colors as different wavelengths appear or disappear from bouncing off the surface.
How are we planning on solving it (general idea).
We plan to start with the path tracing algorithms we designed in HW 3, and expanding it following the methodology outlined in Nigel Morris’ paper “Capturing the Reflectance Model of Soap Bubbles”. To accomplish this, we will model light as a combination of many different wavelengths, and then handling the refraction and BRDFs accordingly so that different wavelengths have the opportunity to be amplified or attenuated. Then we combine the wavelength spectrum back together to convert to the CIE color space and then RGB from there, as the paper suggests.
Goals and Deliverables:
What are we trying to accomplish?
Build a modified path tracer that renders iridescent surfaces with physically correct color shifts as the viewing angle changes. 
What results are we going for?
We are hoping to be able to render images of soap bubbles and cds that allow you to see the iridescent quality as you would looking at the physical object in person.
Why do we think we can accomplish these goals?
We can accomplish these goals because we have access to resources that have already computed the math necessary to be able to properly render iridescence. In addition, from completing homework three we have already built a path tracer that we can build off of to adjust and implement these interference equations that will result in the iridescent quality.
Define the kind of images we are creating (including a photo)
We aim to render surfaces that have thin film iridescent reflections such as bubbles and apply those types of reflections of objects in both indoor environments and outdoor environments to highlight the differences between point and diffuse lighting.

How will we measure the quantity / performance of the system? (Try if not possible)
We will be checking overall render time to see if our rendering pipeline is reasonably efficient. 
What questions do we plan to answer?
How do these iridescent surfaces affect the bouncing of rays?


This section should be broken into 2 parts:
What we plan to deliver: describe what we must accomplish to have a successful project and achieve ideal grade (planning for unexpected problems)
Our desired result is a rendering pipeline that accurately models how iridescent objects appear in different environments, including indoor, outdoor, dark, and bright scenes.
What we hope to deliver: If all goes well and we get ahead of schedule what we would do.
If we finish ahead of schedule we will consider ways of improving the performance of our methods since we mainly care about a working implementation. 
We would like to optimize the method to be fast enough to render in real time (or alternatively, render dozens of bubbles quickly or possibly an animated scene in at most a few hours).
Schedule:
Organize and plan the tasks and subtasks we need to execute over the next four weeks. Maybe make a calendar or something? Or shared a to-do list on google tasks?
Week 0: April 6th - April 12th
Submit Proposal
Begin creating test scenes
Finish helper funcs to convert rgb to wavelength 
Begin refactoring HW3 to allow for translucent/transparent surfaces
Week 1: April 13th - April 19th
Alter the rays to carry specific wavelengths
Finish probability distribution helper function of colors a ray can take.
Design light sources to be realistic (e.g. incandescent light, halogen, sun, etc)
Finish test scenes 
Finish refactoring HW3
Submit Graded Milestone (4.20)
Week 2: April 20th - April 26th
Finish all technical aspects.
Finish testing
Get renders
Week 3: April 27th - May 3rd (Exam Week)
Finalize website and slides 
Submit Final Presentations
Submit Peer Reviews
Resources:
List of resources that are references for our project (books, papers, or online resources).
a paper about rendering reflectance of soap bubbles (primary)
wavelength dependent reflectance functions
https://jellyrenders.com/graphics/ray%20tracing/2025/11/17/simple-iridescent-material/
https://gamedev.net/tutorials/_/technical/graphics-programming-and-theory/thin-film-interference-for-computer-graphics-r2962/ 
List the computing platform, hardware and software we are using for the project.
We will be building off of Homework 3 as it provides the necessary foundation for general ray tracing and which we will augment to support iridescent objects (ie. bubbles, CDs). https://cs184.eecs.berkeley.edu/sp26/hw/hw3/


